# 2023 年同等学力申硕英语考试真题及答案（回忆版）

> 来源：[在职研究生招生信息网](https://www.eduego.com/tdxl/shiti/7345.html)

## Paper One（试卷一）（100 minutes）

### Part I Oral Communication（15 minutes, 10 points）

#### Dialogue One

A. When was this purchase made?
B. What's wrong with it?
C. Can you tell me what the charge was?

Alice: I have a problem with my credit card.

B: **(1) B**

Alice: There is a charge on my card that I didn't make.

B: **(2) C**

Alice: It's for a purse that cost $350.

B: Are you sure that you didn't buy the purse?

Alice: I can't even afford a purse that expensive.

B: I'm very sorry. **(3) A**

Alice: At 15:15 on Nov. 20th, I was at work then.

B: We're going to investigate this claim.

**答案：(1) B (2) C (3) A**

#### Dialogue Two

A. Take a look in the mirror.
B. So did your parents give you a reason?
C. You see my parents really don't love me.

W: Uh, you look really unhappy. What's going on?

M: **(4) C**

W: What do you mean? When I met them last week, they seemed really caring.

M: Uh, you don't understand! I want a new smartphone but my parents won't buy it for me!

W: **(5) B**

M: Not a good one... only something about being independent. And now they want me to work on my neighbor's farm to pay for it. That's really unfair.

W: Hey, I think I know what the problem is. **(6) A**

**答案：(4) C (5) B (6) A**

#### Dialogue Three

A. I might be open to it after that.
B. That's all I need to know for now.
C. or you prefer to work alone.
D. I'd also like a chance to advance.

Interviewer: Welcome to the interview, Mr. Adam. I was wondering if you like team projects, **(7) C**

Interviewee: I like to work on group projects that value individual contributions.

Interviewer: Are you interested in a steady job or one with more opportunity?

Interviewee: I have children so a steady job is important. But **(8) D**

Interviewer: How would you feel about relocating to another state?

Interviewee: I could not relocate in the next year, but **(9) A**

Interviewer: Do you know how much this job offers per year?

Interviewee: A minimum of $75,000 per year.

Interviewer: OK, well, **(10) B**

**答案：(7) C (8) D (9) A (10) B**

### Part II Vocabulary（10 minutes, 10 points）

**11.** Everything I have learned from history books **affirms** my respect for these great figures.
A. constitutes
B. extends
C. confirms
D. reveals
**答案：C**

**12.** I fully agree with what the previous speaker has said, but would like to add a few **remarks** of my own.
A. opinions
B. proposals
C. concepts
D. lessons
**答案：A**

**13.** His most appealing **trait** is his unfailing sense of humor.
A. hobby
B. feature
C. trace
D. power
**答案：B**

**14.** Some people feel that using artificial intelligence in this **context** is particularly risky.
A. position
B. situation
C. frame
D. sphere
**答案：B**

**15.** All classes across the area will have to be **called off** when the hurricane arrives.
A. restricted
B. postponed
C. canceled
D. abandoned
**答案：C**

**16.** These books were so old and **fragile** that access to them was limited.
A. valuable
B. delicate
C. weird
D. terrific
**答案：B**

**17.** Don't **give out** any personal information about your identity on an unfamiliar app.
A. disclose
B. emit
C. distribute
D. evoke
**答案：A**

**18.** The issue of **liability** in a driverless car accident has yet to be resolved.
A. flexibility
B. stability
C. security
D. responsibility
**答案：D**

**19.** The cook will **coat** the pan with some oil first so the onions don't stick.
A. fill
B. feed
C. cover
D. circle
**答案：C**

**20.** Scholars are **inclined** to the view that the research report was composed by someone else.
A. leaning
B. leading
C. leaping
D. leaving
**答案：A**

### Part III Reading Comprehension（45 minutes, 25 points）

#### Passage One

The rising popularity of having goods delivered directly to one's doorstep has come with increased attention on another phenomenon: porch theft. In communities across the country, residents have expressed concern about stolen packages. Now, lawmakers around the country are aiming to crack down on it.

Brookhaven police has launched "Operation Plugged In", a program that allows residents and businesses to register their private surveillance cameras with the department, so that police can request video contents if a crime occurs in a certain area. Hundreds of individuals and businesses have registered their cameras as part of the program.

This technology has made policing quicker and easier, said Jacob Kissel, an officer at the Brookhaven police department. "We used to go out and knock on everybody's door after a crime happened. Now we can pull up a map and there are bullet points of all of our registered residents with cameras", he added. That allows police to simply pick up the phone and ask residents: "Can you look at your system? Is there anything that you may be able to provide us?"

Scholars who study surveillance and package theft raise concerns around the widespread use of technology to catch package thieves, however. For instance, facial recognition technology has been known to misidentify people with darker skin tones. One research has also shown that predominantly white neighborhoods use doorbell cameras and related platforms to practice "racial gate keeping", which can lead to increased policing of communities of color.

Lawmakers say the new laws making package theft a felony reflects concerns of their constituents. But it's unclear whether residents truly feel about the issue. One Brookhaven resident said his package was stolen last year, and it was not a big deal. Since the incidents last fall, package theft has not been a problem in the community, and he was surprised to hear that police were building cases around the thefts. "I honestly think that's a little extreme," said Sabah, another Brookhaven resident. "A lot of the resources go into finding who stole a package. They could be reallocated somewhere else."

**21.** "Operation Plugged In" allows the police to ______.
A. use the videos from registered cameras
B. check on the residents with cameras
C. install more surveillance cameras
D. require residents to register their cameras
**答案：A**

**22.** What is Paragraph 4 mainly concerned with?
A. Violation of privacy
B. Racial discrimination
C. Abuse of technology
D. Policing efficiency
**答案：B**

**23.** The word "felony" (Para. 5) is closest in meaning to ______.
A. minor offense
B. dishonest behavior
C. immoral conduct
D. serious crime
**答案：D**

**24.** What does Khandaker think of the crackdown on package thefts?
A. It will turn out rewarding.
B. It hurts resident relationships.
C. It seems to be an overreaction.
D. It will achieve the intended effect.
**答案：C**

**25.** What is the author's tone in discussing package theft?
A. Ironic
B. Objective
C. Relieved
D. Humorous
**答案：B**

---

#### Passage Two

There is a concept in the psychological literature known as locus of control that is unfamiliar to most people, even though once defined, is commonly understood. Locus of control is an individual's belief system regarding the causes of his or her experiences and the factors to which that person attributes success or failure.

This concept is usually divided into two categories: internal and external. If a person has an internal locus of control, that person attributes success to his or her own efforts and abilities. A person with an external locus of control, by contrast, often attributes his or her success to luck or fate and will be less likely to make the efforts needed to learn. This is not to say that an internal locus of control is "good" and an external locus of control is "bad." There are other variables to be considered. However, psychological research has found that people with a more internal locus of control seem to be better off, e.g. they tend to be more achievement-oriented and get better-paying jobs.

Locus of control is often viewed as an inborn personality component. However, there is also evidence that it is shaped by childhood experiences—including children's interactions with their parents. Children who were raised by parents who encouraged their independence and helped them to learn the connection between actions and their consequences tended to have a more well-developed internal locus of control.

The benefits of this were specified in a research study that looked at the potential health effects of the locus of control trait. Researchers found that of more than 7,500 British adults followed since birth, those who had shown an internal locus of control at the age of 10 were less likely to be overweight at age 30, less likely to describe their health as poor, or show high levels of psychological stress. The major explanation for these findings was that children with a more internal locus of control behave more healthily as adults because they have greater confidence in their ability to influence outcomes through their own actions. They may also have higher self-esteem.

**26.** It is stated in Paragraph 1 that locus of control is ______.
A. intensively discussed by researchers
B. familiar to most people
C. a method to avoid failure
D. a belief of what determines success
**答案：D**

**27.** People with an external locus of control tend to ______.
A. rely on their own abilities
B. attribute success to luck
C. be more achievement-oriented
D. have better-paying jobs
**答案：B**

**28.** What is Paragraph 3 mainly about?
A. The benefits of locus of control
B. How locus of control is developed
C. The role of parents in education
D. The differences between internal and external locus
**答案：B**

**29.** According to the study, children with an internal locus of control ______.
A. were less confident as adults
B. were more likely to be overweight
C. behaved more healthily as adults
D. had higher levels of stress
**答案：C**

**30.** What can be inferred about locus of control from the passage?
A. It is solely determined by genetics.
B. External locus of control is always harmful.
C. It can be influenced by early experiences.
D. Internal locus of control guarantees success.
**答案：C**

---

#### Passage Three

I'm an oceanographer who focuses on the study of the ocean. One of my research interests is amphipods, a kind of tiny sea creature with a soft body and a hard outer shell. Amphipods often live in the canyons under the sea. They are a food source for larger organisms, fueling the food chain and ultimately the species that humans catch and eat. There are thousands of amphipod species all over the world in fresh and salty water from the surface to the deep seas. We can think of amphipods as a key species—one that helps indicate how healthy an ecosystem is—because they are so common across the oceans. This was a factor in my decision to study them.

I didn't directly observe how the amphipod species lives its life. Instead, I compared what I knew about it to studies of similar species. This allowed me to make assumptions about its lifestyle. For instance, amphipods have excellent smell-detecting abilities because large food falls are far away. For some female amphipods, finding these food falls is especially important because they must stuff themselves before reproducing.

By the end of my studies I was keenly aware of the difficulties in studying deep-sea organisms. The challenges are not just limited to accessing their habitats. It's also tough to locate the organisms themselves. Finding amphipods in the deep open ocean is like finding needles in a haystack. Scientists sometimes use large nets to scoop up whatever is in the sea around them, but there's no guarantee that they'll get what they are looking for.

I presented my research at a big sustainability symposium which allowed me to hear more about human activities that affect amphipods. Offshore oil exploration is one example. The process of looking for oil in the seafloor may reduce the availability of food for deep-sea organisms including amphipods. As their populations decrease, the food sources for larger organisms like the fish we want to eat start disappearing too. Amphipods and humans seem to be worlds apart. And yet harm to rarely seen organisms in the deepest darkest depths of the ocean could end up hurting us in the not-too-distant future.

**31.** The author decided to study amphipods because ______.
A. they show the health condition of an ecosystem
B. they are a main source of seafood for humans
C. it's valuable to compare them with other species
D. it's interesting to learn about their living habits
**答案：A**

**32.** Why are large food falls important for female amphipods?
A. They are the only food source for amphipods.
B. They help to attract male amphipods.
C. They enhance amphipods' sense of smell.
D. They are needed for amphipods' reproduction.
**答案：D**

**33.** The phrase "finding needles in a haystack" (Para. 3) is used to indicate ______.
A. the high cost of capturing amphipods
B. the difficulty of finding amphipods in the sea
C. the urgency in locating amphipods' habitats
D. the challenge to tell amphipods from similar species
**答案：B**

**34.** Which of the following may bring harm to amphipods?
A. Seasonal overfishing.
B. Fish farming at sea.
C. Exploring oil resources.
D. Searching for sea organisms.
**答案：C**

**35.** What can be learned about the relationship between amphipods and humans?
A. Harm to amphipods will affect humans soon.
B. Amphipods and humans live in separate worlds.
C. Human activities lead to the growth of amphipods.
D. Amphipods pose a threat to fishing industry.
**答案：A**

---

#### Passage Four

Europeans play football, and Americans play football; but surprisingly they do not play the same game. American football is played by men (and occasionally women) wearing helmets and protective clothing; the ball is oval. European football is played with a round ball, by people wearing just socks, shorts, a shirt, and football boots.

Americans have another popular outdoor game too—baseball, a classic American game that is only played seriously in North America. In Britain, a few people play an "ancestor" of baseball, called "rounders"—but it is not a popular sport.

In today's "global village", lifestyles are becoming international. Often the American model has spread to other countries of the world. American sports, however, have not spread all over the world, as American films and American fashions have. On the contrary, European sports have been more successful internationally. Indeed, European football is slowly developing in the USA.

In motor racing too, though it is not really a team sport, the USA is different. In Europe, South America, Japan and other countries (including Canada), "motor racing" means "Formula 1"; Americans have IndyCar racing. The Indianapolis 500 is like a Formula 1 race, but different. Several famous Formula 1 drivers—including Nigel Mansell and Jacques Villeneuve—have won the race. On the other hand, no American IndyCar drivers have ever been Formula 1 champions. Nevertheless, Americans are beginning to discover Formula 1 racing since the first American Grand Prix.

Besides these big sports, America of course has basketball—perhaps the most successful "export". Invented at Springfield College, Massachusetts, in 1891, basketball is quite certainly an "American game". Although it is not as big in Europe as in the USA, basketball has become much more popular in other countries than any other American team sport.

Why is America different? The answer is simple. Until the 1960s, team sports were not played on a global scale. The only real "global" sports were individual sports, such as golf and tennis. A hundred years ago, individual rich Americans could travel to Europe on holiday, and play these two games. But whole teams of sportsmen did not often travel around the world; it was too expensive and slow!

**36.** Which statement is true about the description of football?
A. American football is round while European's is oval.
B. European football players wear protective clothing.
C. American football is mainly played by males.
D. Rules for football game are similar across the world.
**答案：C**

**37.** What can we learn about the "global village" (Para. 3)?
A. Globalization of lifestyles is taking place.
B. American sports are as popular as its films worldwide.
C. European football has replaced American football.
D. Different cultures have shaped the American model.
**答案：A**

**38.** American motor racing drivers ______.
A. are opposed to Formula 1 racing
B. often win Formula 1 races
C. have strong team spirit
D. take part in IndyCar racing
**答案：D**

**39.** According to Paragraph 5, American basketball ______.
A. reserves its unique American style
B. was brought in by Europeans in the 19th century
C. has spread to many other countries
D. is the most popular team sport in Europe
**答案：C**

**40.** American team sports were difficult to spread internationally due to ______.
A. high travelling cost
B. lack of team spirit
C. fierce competition
D. high demand of skills
**答案：A**

---

#### Passage Five

World Mental Health (WMH) Day, on 10 October, is a day to raise awareness of the effects mental illness has on millions of people's lives across the world, and to help educate and inform us all.

Around the world, one in four people will have some mental illness during their lifetime. Around 450 million people are living with a mental health problem right now, making it one of the biggest health issues in the world. Yet people rarely talk about any mental health problems they have because it is humiliating.

WMH Day was first celebrated in 1992 to raise awareness of just how common mental health issues are, fight against stigma and campaign for better conditions and treatment for people who have a mental health problem. The number of people and organizations involved in celebrating WMH Day has grown and grown, and now many countries, such as Australia, even have a Mental Health Week. Each year there is a different theme. For example, in 2017 the theme was mental health in the workplace.

WMH Day encourages us to be more aware of both our own mental health and other people's. As well as looking after yourself, think about how you could support other people. For example, you could find out more about common issues such as anxiety and depression, so you will understand friends' and colleagues' problems better. You could also encourage your workplace to start a wellness program that would benefit everyone. Companies with wellness programs have found employees take 28 percent less time off for sickness.

**Comment 1:**

Spending less time online is a huge factor to reduce anxiety and depression. Also avoiding negativity could help a lot.

**Comment 2:**

Celebrating the day is just the first step. Daily education matters.

**Comment 3:**

This could involve chatting on social media, hearing music and browsing new ideas, attending new events and so on.

**Comment 4:**

It is very difficult to persuade someone with mental health issues to admit they have been ill. Many people would rather accept the advice of their relatives to see a doctor than to admit they have been ill.

**Comment 5:**

This topic is necessary and important to discuss. Many people suffer from mental illness and it is vital to talk about it every day rather than on a special day.

**41.** Which of the following is true about mental illness around the world?
A. It is not as serious as people think.
B. A majority of people suffer from it.
C. A shameful feeling is attached to it.
D. People are eager to understand it.
**答案：C**

**42.** What can we learn about WMH Day?
A. It was first celebrated in Australia.
B. Millions of people celebrate it every year.
C. Mental health in the workplace is the constant theme.
D. It advocates care of mental health for oneself and others.
**答案：D**

**43.** According to Comment 1, what may result in mental illness?
A. Unfair treatment.
B. Limited access to the Internet.
C. Tense human relations.
D. Negative attitude.
**答案：D**

**44.** Which comment stresses people's unwillingness to admit their mental problems?
A. Comment 2.
B. Comment 3.
C. Comment 4.
D. Comment 5.
**答案：C**

**45.** Which comments call for consistent efforts to improve mental health?
A. Comment 1 and Comment 3.
B. Comment 2 and Comment 5.
C. Comment 1 and Comment 4.
D. Comment 3 and Comment 5.
**答案：B**

### Part IV Cloze（10 minutes, 10 points）

Is homework beneficial or harmful? From painting to book reports, **(46)** research projects, the type and amount of homework given to students has been **(47)** for over a century.

In the early 1900s, progressive education theorists criticized homework's **(48)** negative impact on children's physical and mental health, **(49)** California to ban homework for students under 15. Public opinion swayed in **(50)** of homework in the 1950s due to concerns about keeping up with the technological advances.

Today, kindergarten to fifth graders have an average of 2.9 hours of homework per week, and ninth to twelfth graders have 3.5 hours per teacher, **(51)** a high school student with five teachers could have 17.5 hours of homework a week. Teenagers now spend about twice as much time on homework each day **(52)** compared to teens in the 1990s.

**(53)** of homework say that it improves student achievement and allows for independent learning of classroom and life skills. They also say that homework gives parents the opportunity to **(54)** their child's learning and see how they are progressing academically.

Opponents argue that too **(55)** homework may be harmful for students as it can increase stress, reduce leisure and sleep time, and lead to cheating. They also believe that it widens social inequality and is not proven to be beneficial for younger children.

**46.**
A. from
B. with
C. to
D. by
**答案：C**

**47.**
A. debated
B. praised
C. ignored
D. perceived
**答案：A**

**48.**
A. parents'
B. homework's
C. schools'
D. society's
**答案：B**

**49.**
A. lead
B. led
C. leading
D. having led
**答案：C**

**50.**
A. hope
B. case
C. time
D. favor
**答案：D**

**51.**
A. saying
B. claiming
C. requiring
D. meaning
**答案：D**

**52.**
A. because
B. as
C. unless
D. though
**答案：B**

**53.**
A. Supporters
B. Consultants
C. Critics
D. Suppliers
**答案：A**

**54.**
A. prove
B. punish
C. monitor
D. simplify
**答案：C**

**55.**
A. many
B. much
C. little
D. few
**答案：B**

### Part V Text Completion（20 minutes, 20 points）

#### Text One

A. danger
B. problems
C. information

Phrases:

A. cause big **56** for all life on earth
B. are in **57** of dying out completely
C. brings together **58** from 73 different sources

Scientists are reporting that the world's insects are dying out eight times faster than most other animals. They warn that the loss of these insects will **(59) A**. A group of scientists recently put out a "meta-study" on the loss of insects around the world. The meta-study looks at the work of many other scientific studies. This report **(60) C**. The results of the study are alarming. The scientists say that 40% of the world's insects have had a sharp drop in their numbers in the last ten years. One third of the world's insects **(61) B**. The news is not only bad for the insects, but for everything else that lives on the planet.

**56. B　57. A　58. C**
**(59) A　(60) C　(61) B**

#### Text Two

A. scales
B. oriented
C. question

Phrases:

A. answer **62** that perplex us
B. on both large and small **63**
C. **64** towards understanding the individual

Every aspect of our lives is shaped by our relationship with society and its influences. As a broad social science, sociology is the study of human societies and the wide array of groups existing within them. Sociologists study the way society develops and functions **(65) B**. From national government and cultural norms to local politics and family values, sociologists analyze the who and why of our society. They seek to **(66) A** when we look at not only individuals but society as a whole. Sociology is a field of study not well understood and often confused with psychology. Though similar in many respects, psychology is **(67) C** and how the individual relates to the group. By contrast, sociology is a study of systems and society. It investigates macro-level issues like poverty, food deserts, and unemployment.

**62. C　63. A　64. B**
**(65) B　(66) A　(67) C**

#### Text Three

A. strategy
B. focus
C. emotions
D. benefits

Phrases:

A. process difficult **68** or feelings
B. have **69** for many organ systems
C. be a useful **70**
D. choosing to try and **71** on potential solutions

Positive thinking sometimes gets a bad reputation. Why? Because a lot of people think it can negatively impact our wellbeing, as it does not allow us to **(72) A**. However, positive thinking is not about ignoring reality, but rather **(73) D**, and being open to new ways of thinking. It can **(74) C** for mentally and emotionally dealing with the many uncertainties and challenges of life.

Our ability to reframe and look for the positives in a situation appears to **(75) B** within our bodies. This is known as "cognitive reframing" and it trains us to use techniques to challenge our perspective on a situation or experience.

**68. C　69. D　70. A　71. B**
**(72) A　(73) D　(74) C　(75) B**

---

## Paper Two（试卷二）

### Part VI Translation（10 points）

While everyone's image of their dream home looks a little different, most people will agree that their ideal neighborhood is filled with friendly faces and neighbors they can rely on in a time of need. However, as is the case with all friendships, getting to know your neighbors takes time and effort—though potentially less than you may expect. There are real benefits to getting to know your neighbors. A recent study found that people with positive social perceptions of their neighborhoods were less likely to experience depression, anxiety and loneliness.

### Part VII Writing（15 points）

Write a composition in no less than 150 words on the topic: **Is winning what counts most in our life?** You could write according to the hints given below.

Our life is often filled with competitions of all forms and kinds. As a result, people are often judged as winners or losers in those competitions. Is winning the most important in our life? Give your opinion and reasons.
